# Overview

Currently this video is the best and most extensive guide on how to build in KitHack - [Early Access Tutorial and Building Guide - How To Build a Plane, Car, or Boat - By TrimBarktree](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kSZEv6D0HQ&t=3061s)

## Other Video Tutorials

* [How to Build a Plane in Kithack Model Club - By Curve Games (Developer)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiQihqcxwU4)

## Building a plane

### Key Buttons

There are three key buttons on the bottom of the workshop window (and one option) that are vital to build planes.

1. Center of Mass 🟡 (CoM) If you were to hold your finger under the plane, this is where it would balance.
1. Center of Thrust 🟠 (CoT) The midpoint where thrust from all a craft's engines balances and the direction in which a craft's thrust is acting.
1. Aero Stability 🔵 This overlay shows how your aircraft would react while in flight. Blue is for stable, orange if for unstable. The thicker the line, the more stable/unstable it is. You want your overlay to look like a thick B.
<!-- TODO Verify this -->
1. Center of Lift 🟢 (CoL) - (This may need to be enabled by right clicking the gear by the Aero Stability) The point where the sum total of all lift generated by parts — principally by wings, control surfaces, and aerodynamic fuselage parts — balances out and the aggregate direction their force will act on a craft while in an atmosphere.

### Flight Characteristics ([Source](https://wiki.kerbalspaceprogram.com/wiki/Center_of_lift))

Does your plane not plane very well? This is most likely the reason. Also make sure your Aero Stability Overlay looks like a thick blue B.

* CoL ahead of CoM → Flips or turns uncontrollably
* CoL inside CoM → Excessively maneuverable; needs constant course correction
* CoL closely behind of CoM → More maneuverable
* CoL further behind of CoM → More stable
* CoL very far behind of CoM → Very hard to correct course; likely to flip up or nosedive

### Why can't I connect ducted fans to my motor?

Ducted fans require the "CV Joint" be connected from the motor to the fan. Or CV Joint through transmissions to split the load to two or more ducted fans.

## Building a Car

TODO...

## Building a Boat

TODO...
